Welcome to lesson one, Test Driving IPython and Jupyter Notebooks. In this lesson, we'll be looking at several software test drives, and we will begin specifically with the IPython interpreter and what's known as its interactive mode. With the interactive mode of IPython, we're going to be able to enter small bits of Python code, which we'll refer to as snippets, and Python will then read the snippet we enter, evaluate the snippet we enter. If that snippet has a result associated with it, it will print the result, so we'll immediately see that result, and then it will loop and wait for the next snippet to be entered by us. Read, evaluate, print, and loop together is known as a REPL environment, or R-E-P-L for short. So this is a great way to learn Python because you don't need to write full programs to practice the capabilities of the language, and it's a frequent mode for people who are doing things like exploratory data analysis where they may not know in advance everything they want to do to interact with data. So they use a mode like this where they can dynamically figure out what they want to do and add more to the REPL environment and explore data or build applications. We'll actually, in a later lesson, build a nice visualization one step at a time, taking advantage of the REPL environment and its support for a powerful visualization library called Matplotlib. In the second example, in the second test drive, we'll focus on what's known as script mode for IPython, and that's where we execute a full Python program, which in this language is known as a script. Those full programs will typically be stored in .py files, and with a .py file, not only can that contain a full program, but it can also be used to define a library of additional code. That library could have in it, for example, function definitions and class definitions, and you can bring those into your Python applications and interactive environments for use, as we will do in many different areas throughout these Python fundamentals videos. For that particular demo, we'll be executing a nice die-rolling visualization that produces a bar plot showing you the frequencies of the six different sides of the die that we're simulating the rolling of. For our third test drive, we're going to look at a tool called Jupyter Notebooks. Jupyter Notebooks are actually documents, which means you can pass them around as data among friends or colleagues, for example. Each of these documents has the IPYNB extension, which when it was first introduced stood for IPython Notebook. A notebook was a document that could contain, for example, text-like bullets, such as on this PowerPoint slide, full-blown paragraph-style text like a book chapter, if you want, as well, images, videos, and most importantly, Python code execution capability. With IPython Notebooks, when it was first introduced, it was geared towards Python. Jupyter is actually the new name, and that stands for three different programming languages. The JU is for Julia, the PYT is for Python, and the R is for the R statistical programming language. All three of those are supported by Jupyter Notebooks in a typical install. With Jupyter, you have a concept called a kernel that can be used to support scores of other languages as well. There are literally hundreds of Jupyter kernels out there that you can plug into the Jupyter Notebooks environment so that you can execute code interactively, as we'll demonstrate in this test drive, in the context of a Jupyter Notebook document. Now, the particular interface we will be using for Jupyter Notebooks is the more modern JupyterLab interface. It interacts with a server that runs on your local machine, or there's various ways you can also run these in the cloud, if you will, as well, without having to install any software locally. But JupyterLab is an IDE-like environment. It has a lot of the same features of integrated development environments. Within JupyterLab, you can write Python code in .py files. You can write Python code in Jupyter Notebook files. You can execute Python code in Jupyter Notebooks. And you can develop those notebooks from scratch or load up existing ones as well, which we'll do both of in that demonstration. So the nice thing about Jupyter Notebooks is it gives you a way to package up not just code, but let's say, for example, you were doing a data analysis. In addition to the code in that analysis, you can put in all of your descriptive text with your actual analysis based on what the code produces. Or if you're doing a machine learning or a deep learning case study, as we will in later lessons of these Python videos, you can go step by step and explain what each step is doing and show the code and execute the code and show the results. So it's a really powerful environment for sharing code and analysis type of information as well. And as part of that last test drive, I'll also take a temporary diversion over to a web-based tool from Google called Google CoLab. This is one of several different online services that you can take advantage of for running Jupyter Notebooks. The CoLab environment is fully compatible with the IPYNB files that the Jupyter Notebooks environment creates and vice versa. You can upload your Jupyter Notebooks into your Google Drive in the cloud and execute the notebooks on their free tier of the CoLab web services. You can also pay for extra service if you need it as well. And you can even do things like training machine learning and deep learning models in Google CoLab without having to install any software on your local computer. So I'll show you that as well in case you're interested in using that as a potential environment for building and executing your Jupyter Notebooks and ours as well.
